To access the data sources, you will need the api for both google and yelp. The Google link is https://developers.google.com/places/web-service/search and the Yelp link is https://www.yelp.com/developers/documentation/v3/business_search, these will obtain the information for the specific business searches.
From these websites, you can get your api keys and access tokens by clicking on the get keys tab on the websites, and then place those in a secrets.py file format file to ensure that it cannot be accessed by the public when pushing your code to your repository.
From the data extracted, I created a plotly graphs and the software to create these upon the user commands and the types of information they want to see based on the functions created.
My code is structured in a way that depends on the user command. The user can either enter a command with 1 or 3 keywords The first 3 functions work if the user inputs an appropriate command with 4 words. The first function called top_ten which outputs the top type of place in the city that the user inputs based on the keyword and ratings of those types of places.The second function called top_restaurant outputs the top type of place in the city that the user inputs based on rating and types. The next two functions only work if the user inputs an appropriate command with 6 words. The third function called top_city outputs the top places based on average rating and city. The fourth function called average_three_types outputs the average ratings of the places in the city and the three keywords that the user inputs based on. The fifth function called count_three outputs the count of the number of places based on the city and the three keywords that the user inputs. There is a specific list for the keywords that functions will take, not all keywords work so the user's keywords must be in that list. This is for all functions.
When the user inputs a command, and if that command is 4 words the user will be asked if they want to see the the top names based on keyword, type, or both, and if the answer is either one then that function will run and then the user will be asked if they want to see the graph associated with those outputs and if they say yes then they will be shown the graph through plotly. If the user enters a command with 6 words, then they will be asked if they want to see the average ratings or counts of the specific keywords they entered. If they say either of the options then that function will run and then the user will be asked if they want to see the graph associated with those outputs and if they say yes then they will be shown the graph through plotly
